README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng.png)](https://travis-ci.org/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/repos/51c3523bf3ea005a650124e6/badges/da59f8dc2c9862d749c6/coverage.png)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/51c3523bf3ea005a650124e6/feed)
[![slack.cloudfoundry.org](https://slack.cloudfoundry.org/badge.svg)](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/capi/)

# Welcome to the Cloud Controller

## Helpful Resources

* [V3 API Docs](http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org)
* [V2 API Docs](http://apidocs.cloudfoundry.org)
* [Continuous Integration Pipelines](https://capi.ci.cf-app.com)

## Components

### Cloud Controller

The Cloud Controller provides REST API endpoints to create and manage apps, services, user roles, and more!

### Database

The Cloud Controller supports Postgres and Mysql.

### Blobstore

The Cloud Controller manages a blobstore for:

* Resource cache: During package upload resource matching, Cloud Controller will only upload files it doesn't already have in this cache.
* App packages: Unstaged files for an application
* Droplets: An executable containing an app and its runtime dependencies
* Buildpacks: Set of programs that transform packages into droplets
* Buildpack cache: Cached dependencies and build artifacts to speed up future staging
 
Cloud Controller currently supports [webdav](http://www.webdav.org/) and the following [fog](http://fog.io) connectors: 

* Azure
* Openstack
* Local (NFS)
* Google
* AWS

### Runtime

The Cloud Controller uses [Diego](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/diego-release) to stage and run apps and tasks.

See [Diego Design Notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/diego-design-notes) for more details.

## Contributing

Please read the [contributors' guide](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Unit Tests
**TLDR:** Always run `bundle exec rake` before committing

To maintain a consistent and effective approach to testing, please refer to [the spec README](spec/README.md) and
keep it up to date, documenting the purpose of the various types of tests.

By default `rspec` will randomly pick between postgres and mysql.

It will try to connect to those databases with the following connection string:
postgres: postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test
mysql: mysql2://root:password@localhost:3306/cc_test

rake db:create will create the above database when the `DB` environment variable is set to postgres or mysql.
You should run this before running rake in order to ensure that the `cc_test` database exists.

You can specify the full connection string via the `DB_CONNECTION_STRING`
environment variable. Examples:

    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test" rake
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="mysql2://root:password@localhost:3306/cc_test" rake
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="tinytds://sa:Password-123@localhost:1433/cc_test" DB=mssql rake

If you are running the integration specs (which are included in the full rake),
and you are specifying DB_CONNECTION_STRING, you will also
need to have a second test database with `_integration_cc` as the name suffix.

For example, if you are using:

    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test"

You will also need a database called:

    `cc_test_integration_cc`

#### Running tests on a single file

The development team typically will run the specs to a single file as (e.g.)

    bundle exec rspec spec/controllers/runtime/users_controller_spec.rb

#### Running all the unit tests

    bundle exec rake spec

#### Running static analysis

    bundle exec rubocop
   
### Running against a local MS SQL docker image

To start a local MS SQL instance on OSX / Linux:

```sh
npm install -g sql-cli
docker run -it -e 'ACCEPT_EULA=Y' -e 'SA_PASSWORD=Password-123' -p 1433:1433 microsoft/mssql-server-linux
```

You can then run against this server in another terminal with `DB=mssql rake`.

### Running against MS SQL on Azure

To test against an MS SQL instance on Azure:

```sh
DB_CONNECTION_STRING="tinytds://$USER%40$SERVER_NAME:$PASSWORD@$SERVER_NAME.database.windows.net:1433/$DB_NAME" \
  DB=mssql \
  USEAZURESQL=true \
  rake
```

### CF Acceptance Tests (CATs)

To ensure our changes to the Cloud Controller correctly integrate with the rest of the Cloud Foundry components like Diego,
we run the [CF Acceptance Tests (CATs)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests) against a running CF deployment.
This test suite uses the CF CLI to ensure end-user actions like `cf push` function end-to-end.

For more substantial code changes and PRs, please deploy your changes and ensure that at least the core CATs suite passes.
Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests#test-setup) for setting up the CATs suite.
The following will run the core test suites against a local bosh-lite:

```bash
cd ~/go/src/github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests
cat > integration_config.json <<EOF
{
  "api": "api.bosh-lite.com",
  "apps_domain": "bosh-lite.com",
  "admin_user": "admin",
  "admin_password": "admin",
  "skip_ssl_validation": true
}
EOF
export CONFIG=$PWD/integration_config.json
./bin/test -nodes=3
```

If your change touches a more specialized part of the code such as Isolation Segments or Tasks,
please opt into the corresponding test suites.
The full list of optional test suites can be found [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests#test-configuration).

## Logs

Cloud Controller uses [Steno](http://github.com/cloudfoundry/steno) to manage its logs.
Each log entry includes a "source" field to designate which module in the code the
entry originates from.  Some of the possible sources are 'cc.app', 'cc.app_stager',
'cc.dea.client' and 'cc.healthmanager.client'.

Here are some use cases for the different log levels:
* `error` - the CC received a malformed HTTP request, or a request for a non-existent droplet
* `warn` - the CC failed to delete a droplet, CC received a request with an invalid auth token
* `info` - CC received a token from UAA, CC received a NATS request
* `debug2` - CC created a service, updated a service
* `debug` - CC syncs resource pool, CC uploaded a file

## Configuration

The Cloud Controller uses a YAML configuration file. For an example, see `config/cloud_controller.yml`.

Commit message:

Add README instructions for increasing docker RAM limit
- MS SQL testing requires more than the default RAM limit

[#141783519]

Signed-off-by: Jason Stevens <jason.stevens@microsoft.com>

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng.png)](https://travis-ci.org/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/repos/51c3523bf3ea005a650124e6/badges/da59f8dc2c9862d749c6/coverage.png)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/51c3523bf3ea005a650124e6/feed)
[![slack.cloudfoundry.org](https://slack.cloudfoundry.org/badge.svg)](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/capi/)

# Welcome to the Cloud Controller

## Helpful Resources

* [V3 API Docs](http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org)
* [V2 API Docs](http://apidocs.cloudfoundry.org)
* [Continuous Integration Pipelines](https://capi.ci.cf-app.com)

## Components

### Cloud Controller

The Cloud Controller provides REST API endpoints to create and manage apps, services, user roles, and more!

### Database

The Cloud Controller supports Postgres and Mysql.

### Blobstore

The Cloud Controller manages a blobstore for:

* Resource cache: During package upload resource matching, Cloud Controller will only upload files it doesn't already have in this cache.
* App packages: Unstaged files for an application
* Droplets: An executable containing an app and its runtime dependencies
* Buildpacks: Set of programs that transform packages into droplets
* Buildpack cache: Cached dependencies and build artifacts to speed up future staging
 
Cloud Controller currently supports [webdav](http://www.webdav.org/) and the following [fog](http://fog.io) connectors: 

* Azure
* Openstack
* Local (NFS)
* Google
* AWS

### Runtime

The Cloud Controller uses [Diego](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/diego-release) to stage and run apps and tasks.

See [Diego Design Notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/diego-design-notes) for more details.

## Contributing

Please read the [contributors' guide](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Unit Tests
**TLDR:** Always run `bundle exec rake` before committing

To maintain a consistent and effective approach to testing, please refer to [the spec README](spec/README.md) and
keep it up to date, documenting the purpose of the various types of tests.

By default `rspec` will randomly pick between postgres and mysql.

It will try to connect to those databases with the following connection string:
postgres: postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test
mysql: mysql2://root:password@localhost:3306/cc_test

rake db:create will create the above database when the `DB` environment variable is set to postgres or mysql.
You should run this before running rake in order to ensure that the `cc_test` database exists.

You can specify the full connection string via the `DB_CONNECTION_STRING`
environment variable. Examples:

    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test" rake
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="mysql2://root:password@localhost:3306/cc_test" rake
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="tinytds://sa:Password-123@localhost:1433/cc_test" DB=mssql rake

If you are running the integration specs (which are included in the full rake),
and you are specifying DB_CONNECTION_STRING, you will also
need to have a second test database with `_integration_cc` as the name suffix.

For example, if you are using:

    DB_CONNECTION_STRING="postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/cc_test"

You will also need a database called:

    `cc_test_integration_cc`

#### Running tests on a single file

The development team typically will run the specs to a single file as (e.g.)

    bundle exec rspec spec/controllers/runtime/users_controller_spec.rb

#### Running all the unit tests

    bundle exec rake spec

#### Running static analysis

    bundle exec rubocop
   
### Running against a local MS SQL docker image

**Note:** The MS SQL image requires at least 4GB of RAM available to docker.
Follow [these instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/linux/sql-server-linux-setup-docker) for increasing RAM limit for docker.

To start a local MS SQL instance on OSX / Linux:

```sh
npm install -g sql-cli
docker run -it -e 'ACCEPT_EULA=Y' -e 'SA_PASSWORD=Password-123' -p 1433:1433 microsoft/mssql-server-linux
```

You can then run against this server in another terminal with `DB=mssql rake`.

### Running against MS SQL on Azure

To test against an MS SQL instance on Azure:

```sh
DB_CONNECTION_STRING="tinytds://$USER%40$SERVER_NAME:$PASSWORD@$SERVER_NAME.database.windows.net:1433/$DB_NAME" \
  DB=mssql \
  USEAZURESQL=true \
  rake
```

### CF Acceptance Tests (CATs)

To ensure our changes to the Cloud Controller correctly integrate with the rest of the Cloud Foundry components like Diego,
we run the [CF Acceptance Tests (CATs)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests) against a running CF deployment.
This test suite uses the CF CLI to ensure end-user actions like `cf push` function end-to-end.

For more substantial code changes and PRs, please deploy your changes and ensure that at least the core CATs suite passes.
Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests#test-setup) for setting up the CATs suite.
The following will run the core test suites against a local bosh-lite:

```bash
cd ~/go/src/github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests
cat > integration_config.json <<EOF
{
  "api": "api.bosh-lite.com",
  "apps_domain": "bosh-lite.com",
  "admin_user": "admin",
  "admin_password": "admin",
  "skip_ssl_validation": true
}
EOF
export CONFIG=$PWD/integration_config.json
./bin/test -nodes=3
```

If your change touches a more specialized part of the code such as Isolation Segments or Tasks,
please opt into the corresponding test suites.
The full list of optional test suites can be found [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests#test-configuration).

## Logs

Cloud Controller uses [Steno](http://github.com/cloudfoundry/steno) to manage its logs.
Each log entry includes a "source" field to designate which module in the code the
entry originates from.  Some of the possible sources are 'cc.app', 'cc.app_stager',
'cc.dea.client' and 'cc.healthmanager.client'.

Here are some use cases for the different log levels:
* `error` - the CC received a malformed HTTP request, or a request for a non-existent droplet
* `warn` - the CC failed to delete a droplet, CC received a request with an invalid auth token
* `info` - CC received a token from UAA, CC received a NATS request
* `debug2` - CC created a service, updated a service
* `debug` - CC syncs resource pool, CC uploaded a file

## Configuration

The Cloud Controller uses a YAML configuration file. For an example, see `config/cloud_controller.yml`.
